.\" Copyright (C) 2020-2023, 2025 |Méso|Star> (contact@meso-star.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.Dd May 9, 2025
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Dt SMSH-DESC 1
.Os
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh NAME
.Nm smsh-desc
.Nd
.Xr smsh 5
file descriptor
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl cdnpt
.Ar mesh
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh DESCRIPTION
Print the pagesize on which the
.Xr smsh 5
mesh data is aligned, as well as the number and dimension of nodes and
cells.
.Pp
The descritpion is printed on stdout with a message of the form:
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
"%zu %zu %zu %u %u %s", pagesz, #nodes, #cells, Dnode, Dcell, mesh
.Ed
.Pp
When any option is specified,
.Nm
reports only the information requested by the specified options.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl c
print cells count.
.It Fl d
print node dimension.
.It Fl n
print node count.
.It Fl p
print data alignment.
.It Fl t
print cell dimension.
.El
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.\"""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smsh 5
