.\" Copyright (C) 2020-2023, 2025, 2025 |Méso|Star> (contact@meso-star.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.Dd July 26, 2023
.Dt SMSH 5
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm smsh
.Nd Star-Mesh file format
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
is a binary file format that describes an indexed mesh
.Pq surface or volume .
Only the geometric data of the mesh is stored; no additional properties are
attached to its nodes or cells.
.Pp
A
.Nm
file begins with a header that describes the layout of the data, followed by
the geometric data itself, i.e. the list of nodes and the list of cells.
.Pp
The header consists of 5 integers.
The first integer is a power of two
.Pq usually 4096
that defines the size of the memory page in bytes
.Pq Va pagesize
on which the list of nodes and the list of cells are aligned.
By aligning data to
.Va pagesize ,
and depending on system requirements, memory mapping can be used to
automatically load/unload pages on demand
.Pq see Xr mmap 2 .
The remaining integers store the number of nodes
.Pq Va #nodes
and the number of cells
.Pq Va #cells ,
followed by the size of a node
.Pq Va dimnode
and the size of a cell
.Pq Va dimcell ,
respectively.
.Pp
Fill bytes follow the file header to align nodes to
.Va pagesize .
The nodes are then listed with a list of
.Va #nodes dimnode
double-precision floating-point numbers per node, where
.Va #nodes
is the number
of mesh nodes and
.Va dimnode
is the number of floating-point numbers per node.
Additional fill bytes are added after the node list to align the list of
upcoming cells to
.Va pagesize .
The cells are then listed using
.Va dimcell
64-bit unsigned integers per node where each
integer indexes a node in the previously defined list of nodes
.Pq indexing starts at 0 .
Finally, fill bytes are added to align the overall file size to
.Va pagesize .
.Pp
Data are encoded with respect to the little endian bytes ordering, i.e. least
significant bytes are stored first.
.Pp
The file format is as follows:
.Bl -column (pagesize) (::=) ()
.It Ao Va smsh Ac Ta ::= Ta Ao Va pagesize Ac Ao Va #nodes Ac Ao Va #cells Ac Ao Va dimnode Ac Ao Va dimcel Ac
.It Ta Ta Aq Va padding
.It Ta Ta Aq Va nodes
.It Ta Ta Aq Va padding
.It Ta Ta Aq Va cells
.It Ta Ta Aq Va padding
.It Ao Va pagesize Ac Ta ::= Ta Vt uint64_t
.It Ao Va #nodes Ac Ta ::= Ta Vt uint64_t
.It Ao Va #cells Ac Ta ::= Ta Vt uint64_t
.It Ao Va dimnode Ac Ta ::= Ta Vt uint32_t
.It Ao Va dimcell Ac Ta ::= Ta Vt uint32_t
.It \  Ta Ta
.It Ao Va padding Ac Ta ::= Ta Op Vt int8_t ...
# Ensure alignment on
.Va pagesize
.It \  Ta Ta
.It Ao Va nodes Ac Ta ::= Ta Ao Va node-pos Ac Va ...
.It Ao Va cells Ac Ta ::= Ta Ao Va cell-ids Ac Va ...
.It Ao Va node-pos Ac Ta ::= Ta Vt double ...
.It Ao Va cell-ids Ac Ta ::= Ta Vt uint64_t ...
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr mmap 2
