.\" Copyright (C) 2020-2023, 2025 |Méso|Star> (contact@meso-star.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.Dd May 9, 2025
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Dt VTK-CELL-DATA 1
.Os
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh NAME
.Nm vtk-data
.Nd transforms a list of values into cell data in VTK format
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl n Ar name No ...
.Op Fl o Ar output
.Fl c Ar cell_count
.Op Ar data
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
formats a list of double precision values in cell data sets as defined in the
legacy VTK format.
To describe a valid VTK file, the result must then be concatenated with a VTK
file storing the geometry of the cells to which this data corresponds.
.Pp
As input,
.Nm
reads a set of
.Ar cell_count
floating-point ASCII values from
.Ar data
or from standard input if
.Ar data
is not specified.
This continues until no more data is supplied or 8 sets have been read.
Each set thus represents a data set associated with each cell.
If a set doesn't contain enough data
.Pq i.e. less than Ar cell_count ,
an error is returned.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl n Ar name
Name of a data set.
It cannot contain spaces or tabs.
This option can be repeated as many times as there are data sets to be
processed.
By default, the name of each dataset is
.Qq data Ns Ar i ,
with
.Ar i
in
.Bq 0,7
the dataset index.
.It Fl o Ar output
Output file.
If not defined, VTK output data is written to the standard output.
.It Fl c Ar cell_count
Number of cells, i.e. number of floating-point values provided per data set.
.El
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh EXAMPLES
Formats a list of 200 floating-point ASCII values read from the
.Pa data.txt
file into two sets of
.Ar 100
values, one value per cell.
Name the first set of data per cell
.Qq temperature ,
and the second
.Qq flux .
Output VTK data are written to
.Pa data.vtk .
Next, concatenate the cell data with their corresponding geometry stored in the
.Pa mesh.vtk
file, and thus define the complete VTK file
.Pa results.vtk .
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
vtk-cell-data -c 100 -n temperature -n flux -o data.vtk data.txt
cat mesh.vtk data.vtk > result.vtk
.Ed
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh STANDARDS
.Rs
.%B The VTK User's Guide
.%O Simple Legacy Formats
.%I Kitware, Inc
.%N 11
.%D 2010
.%P 470--482
.Re
