# Star SamPling

Star-SamPling is a library whose purpose is to generate pseudo-random
numbers and sample distributions. A proxy generator can also be used to
generate independent random sequences from the same pseudo-random
generator. This is particularly useful for ensuring the statistical
independence of random sequences on parallel computations. Although
Star-SamPling relies on C++ libraries, its API is still raw C.

## Requirements

- C++ compiler (C++11)
- POSIX make
- pkg-config
- [Random123](https://github.com/DEShawResearch/random123)
- [RSys](https://gitlab.com/vaplv/rsys)

## Installation

Edit config.mk as needed, then run:

    make clean install

## Release notes

### Version 0.15

- Keep RNG caches managed by proxy in memory to avoid write failures
  when the temporary directory ran out of space.
- Reduce the size of the RNG cache managed by proxy to 4MB to limit the
  memory footprint of the proxy.
- Write state cache in case of fatal error to help debug what went
  wrong.
- Improve the building system. Simplify it by doing everything in one
  place (Makefile). Provide additional macros to control installation
  subdirectories.

### Version 0.14

Replace CMake by Makefile as build system. The build procedure is
written in POSIX make, which the user can configure via the `config.mk`
file. The POSIX script `make.sh` contains commands that could be found
directly in the Makefile, but which are placed here to simplify its
writing. Finally, a pkg-config file is provided to link the library as
an external dependency.

In addition to the features already provided by its CMake alternative,
the Makefile supports the construction of static libraries, provides an
uninstall target and updates compiler and linker flags to increase the
security and robustness of generated binaries. In any case, the main
motivation for using POSIX make is to rely on a good old
well-established standard with simple functionality, available on all
UNIX systems, thus simplifying its portability and support while being
much lighter.

### Version 0.13

#### Index of the RNG proxy sequence

Add the `sequence_id` variable to the RNG proxy. A sequence is a set of
random numbers consumed by the buckets managed by the RNG proxy. This
new variable saves the index of the current sequence relative to the
initial state of the RNG proxy. It thus identifies the set of random
numbers already consumed and currently reserved by an RNG proxy. This
data is provided to allow the caller to synchronize multiple RNG
proxies.

The new `ssp_rng_proxy_get_sequence_id` function allows the caller to
retrieve the index of the current sequence while the
`ssp_rng_proxy_flush_sequences` function allows to remove random numbers
from the current sequence and those from the next one.

#### Issues in RNG proxy

- Fixes the `ssp_rng_proxy_read` function: cached RNG states were not
  being cleaned up when updating the proxy state, resulting in the use
  of random numbers generated from the wrong state.
- Fixes critical issues in the caching mechanism of the RNG proxy: a
  cache size smaller than the size of an RNG state led to critical bugs.

### Version 0.12.1

Fix creating a random number proxy generator using the KISS type: this
type was considered invalid while it is not.

### Version 0.12

Ensures C++11 compliance to correct gcc 11 compilation errors. On the
other hand, this introduces API breaks.

According to the C++11 standard, the min/max values of a
UniformRandomBitGenerator must be static constant expressions. But until
now, gcc has been flexible enough to allow the use of
UniformRandomBitGenerators with regular min/max values. At run time, the
caller could thus define its own RNG type as provided by the struct
`ssp_rng_type` data structure.  Unfortunately, since its version 11, gcc
is more severe and refuses to compile this code.

This version updates the API to respect this C++11 constraint. The
`ssp_rng_type` is no longer a structure; it becomes an enumeration which
is then instantiated internally in a specific UniformRandomBitGenerator
with min/max values resolved at compilation time.

### Version 0.11.1

Sets the CMake minimum version to 3.1 in the Random123Config.cmake file:
since CMake 3.20, version 2 has become obsolete.

### Version 0.11

- Add the `ssp_ran_spherical_zone_uniform` distribution that uniformly
  samples a position on a truncated spherical cap.
- Rename the library to `star-sp` to avoid conflicts with GCC's
  `libssp`.

### Version 0.10

- Add the `ssp_ran_exp_truncated` distribution.

### Version 0.9

- Rewrite the caching mechanism used to register the RNG states provided
  by the proxy to its managed generators. These states are no more saved
  in files that continuously grow. The streams have now a limited size,
  and the states are structured into them as in a FIFO circular queue.
  When a queue is full, the RNG states are no more stored into it but
  will be generated by the associated managed RNG.
- Update the `ssp_rng_proxy_create2` function: input arguments are now
  provided through a structured variable. Furthermore, its initial state
  can be setup from an optionnal RNG.
- Add the `ssp_ran_tetrahedron_uniform[_float]` random variates that
  uniformly distributes a point into a tetrahedron.
- Fix the read function of the KISS RNG: de-serialised data could be
  wrong.

### Version 0.8.1

- Fix a possible invalid memory read on proxy allocator clear.

### Version 0.8

- Add the `ssp_ran_sphere_cap_uniform[_local][_float]` random variates
  that uniformly distributes a point onto a unit sphere cap centered in
  zero.
- Fix the allocation of the `ssp_rng` data structure: the `ssp_rng`
  structure contains a long double attribute that might be not correctly
  aligned on 16 bytes.

### Version 0.7

- Add the `ssp_ran_circle_uniform` random variate that uniformly
  distributes a 2 dimensional position onto a unit circle.

### Version 0.6

- Add the `ssp_rng_proxy_create2` function that allows to tune the sub
  sets of pseudo random numbers that the proxy generator can use. Pseudo
  random numbers that do not lie in these partitions are skipped by the
  proxy. Thanks to this functionality, on can create several proxies,
  each generating its own set of pseudo random numbers that does not
  overlap the sequences of the other proxies.
- Update the version of the RSys dependency to 0.6: replace the
  deprecated `[N]CHECK` macros by the new macro `CHK`.

### Version 0.5

- Rename the `ssp_ran_uniform_disk` API call into
  `ssp_ran_uniform_disk_local`.
- Add a more general version of the uniform disk random variate allowing
  users to provide the disk's normal.
- Add a float equivalent for all the already defined double random
  variates.
- Add some missing pdf API calls.
- Change the API of some random variates that returned the pdf as an
  additional vector component along with the sampled vector (i.e.
  filling up a vector[4] instead of a vector[3]). The pdf is now
  returned through an optional dedicated argument.

### Version 0.4

- Update the API of the random variates to return double precision reals
  rather than single precision values.
- Use the specific prefix `ssp_ranst` to name the state-based random
  variates.
- Add the piecewise linear and uniform disk random variates.
- Ensure that the single precision version of the canonical uniform
  distribution does not return 1.
- Speed up the canonical uniform distribution.
- Add the `ssp_rng_proxy_write` and `ssp_rng_proxy_read` functions that
  serializes and deserializes the data of the proxy RNG, respectively.

## License

Copyright (C) 2015-2025 |Méso|Star> (contact@meso-star.com)

Star-SP is free software released under GPL v3+ license: GNU GPL version
3 or later. You are welcome to redistribute it under certain conditions;
refer to the COPYING file for details.
