.\" Copyright (C) 2020-2023, 2025 |Méso|Star> (contact@meso-star.com)
.\"
.\" This program is free software: you can redistribute it and/or modify
.\" it under the terms of the GNU General Public License as published by
.\" the Free Software Foundation, either version 3 of the License, or
.\" (at your option) any later version.
.\"
.\" This program is distributed in the hope that it will be useful,
.\" but WITHOUT ANY WARRANTY; without even the implied warranty of
.\" MERCHANTABILITY or FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE. See the
.\" GNU General Public License for more details.
.\"
.\" You should have received a copy of the GNU General Public License
.\" along with this program. If not, see <http://www.gnu.org/licenses/>.
.Dd February 20, 2025
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Dt SUVM-VOXELIZE 1
.Os
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh NAME
.Nm suvm-voxelize
.Nd voxelize a tetrahedral mesh
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Op Fl hnv
.Op Fl d Ar x , Ns Ar y , Ns Ar z
.Op Fl o Ar output
.Op Ar input
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
voxelize a tetrahedral mesh stored in the
.Xr smsh 5
file format.
Generated voxels are parallelepipeds saved in VTK format.
Each voxel stores the number of tetrahedra covering it.
.Pp
If input is not defined, the mesh is read from standard input.
.Pp
The options are as follows:
.Bl -tag -width Ds
.It Fl d Ar x , Ns Ar y , Ns Ar z
definition of voxelization along the 3 axes.
Default is 64,64,64.
.It Fl h
Display short help and exit.
.It Fl n
pre-calculate tetrahedron normals.
This should speed up voxelization speed by calculating normals once and
for all, rather than re-evaluating them each time a tetrahedron is
tested against a voxel.
On the other hand, the memory space used to store normals increases the
memory footprint.
.It Fl o Ar output
Output file.
Voxels are stored in VTK format.
If not defined, data is written to standard output.
.It Fl v
Make
.Nm
verbose.
.El
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh EXAMPLES
Voxelize
.Pa volumic_mesh.smsh
and save the results in
.Pa voxels.vtk :
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
suvm-voxelize -o voxels.vtk volumic_mesh.smsh
.Ed
.Pp
Same as above but with a voxelization definition of 256^3:
.Bd -literal -offset Ds
suvm-voxelize -d256,256,256 -o voxels.vtk volumic_mesh.smsh
.Ed
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr smsh 5
.\""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""""
.Sh STANDARDS
.Rs
.%B The VTK User's Guide
.%O Simple Legacy Formats
.%I Kitware, Inc
.%N 11
.%D 2010
.%P 470--482
.Re
